# Name resolution service

This service takes lexical strings and attempts to map them to identifiers (curies) from a vocabulary or ontology.  
The lookup is not exact, but includes partial matches.

Multiple results may be returned representing possible conceptual matches, but all of the identifiers have been 
correctly normalized using the [NodeNormalization service](https://nodenormalization-sri.renci.org/apidocs).

See the documentation [notebook](documentation/NameResolution.ipynb) for examples of use.

## Setting up NameRes locally

NameRes requires an Apache Solr database and the NameRes frontend running in Python.
The easiest way to set this up is by using the Docker Compose setup included in this
file, although you will need either (1) a set of synonyms files generated by Babel
to load into Solr, or (2) a Solr database backup to load into Solr. The following
instructions will work whichever of the two approaches you need to follow.

### Starting NameRes locally with loading from a Solr backup

The simplest way to run NameRes locally is by using a Solr backup from another NameRes
instance or from Translator.

1. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed; this should come
   with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).
2. Create the local directory where your Solr data will be stored -- by default, this is
   `./data/solr` in this directory, but you can change this in
   [docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml). This directory will need to have a maximum
   storage of approx 400Gi: 104G of the downloaded file, 
3. Download the Solr backup URL you want to use into your Solr data directory. It should be
   approximately 104G in size.
4. Uncompress the Solr backup file. It should produce a `var/solr/data/snapshot.backup` directory
   in the Solr data (by default, `./data/solr/var/solr/data/snapshot.backup`).
5. Check the [docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml) file to ensure that it is
   as you expect.
   * By default, the Docker Compose file will use the latest released version of NameRes
     as the frontend. To use the source code in this repository, you will need to change
     the build instructions for the `nameres` service in the Docker Compose file.
6. Start the Solr and NameRes pods by running `docker-compose up`. By default, Docker Compose
   will download and start the relevant pods and show you logs from both sources. You may
   press `Ctrl+C` to stop the pods.
7. Look for a line similar to `Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0:2433 (Press CTRL+C to quit)`,
   which tells you where NameRes is running.
   * By default, the web frontend (http://0.0.0.0:2433/docs) defaults to using the
     [NameRes RENCI Dev](https://name-resolution-sri.renci.org/docs) — you will need to
     change the "Servers" setting to use your local NameRes instance.
   * Note that looking up http://0.0.0.0:2433/status will give you an error (`Expected core not found.`).
     This is because the Solr database and indexes have not yet been loaded.
8. Run the Solr restore script using `bash`, i.e. `bash solr-restore/restore.sh`. This script
   assumes that the Solr pod is available on `localhost:8983` and contains a
   `var/solr/data/snapshot.backup` directory with the data to restore.

#### Loading from synonyms files

TODO

## Docker setup

`docker-compose up`

## native setup

### Solr database

See instructions in the `data-loading/` directory.

### API

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
./main.sh
```

### Kubernetes

Helm charts can be found at https://github.com/helxplatform/translator-devops/helm/r3

## examples

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:6434/lookup?string=oxycod&offset=0&limit=10" -H "accept: application/json"
```

## Configuration

NameRes can be configured by setting environmental variables:

* `SOLR_HOST` and `SOLR_PORT`: Hostname and port for the Solr database containing NameRes information.
* `SERVER_NAME`: The name of this server (defaults to `infores:sri-name-resolver`)
* `SERVER_ROOT`: The server root (defaults to `/`)
* `MATURITY_VALUE`: How mature is this NameRes (defaults to `maturity`, e.g. `development`)
* `LOCATION_VALUE`: Where is this NameRes setup (defaults to `location`, e.g. `RENCI`)
* `OTEL_ENABLED`: Turn on Open TELemetry (default: `'false'`) -- only `'true'` will turn this on. 
    * `JAEGER_HOST` and `JAEGER_PORT`: Hostname and port for the Jaegar instance to provide telemetry to.
    * `JAEGER_SERVICE_NAME`: The name of this service (defaults to the value of `SERVER_NAME`)
